Which knowledge can also be used in
modern question answering systems?
And the most commonly used form
of knowledge is relations.
And so, relation extraction, which we
talked about in a previous lecture,
is very important in question answering.
And the relations can occur in
pulling out the answers, or
in analyzing the question, or in both.
So, for example, we might have databases
of relations triple stores that we might
draw form Wikipedia info boxes, and might
be stored in places like DDP and freebase.
And these various databases, and we can
learn facts like born in Emma Goldman,
June 27, 1869 so
we can learn the birth date of somebody or
that Cao Xue Qin wrote Dream of
the Red Chamber, my favorite novel.
So this author of relation,
this born in relation
are the kind of things that we may be
able to extract from these triple stores.
To answer questions about
Emma Goldman's birth date or
the name of the author of
Dream of The Red Chamber.
And doing that requires that we know
what relation was being asked for
in the question.
And so we're going to need to also
extract relations from questions.
So, if I ask a question whose
granddaughter starred in ET?
I need to know that this question has
relations like some acted in ET and
someone else has that
someone has a granddaughter.
So these are just the kind of
relations that of we could extract
from both the question and
the answer then we can do some matching
on our triple stores and help find
the answer that's going to be used by most
of the modern question answering systems.
Another kind of rich use of knowledge is
temporal reasoning from again from these
relation databases and also from
obituaries or biographical dictionaries.
So a question that IBM sir Watson faced.
In 1594, he took a job as a tax
collector in Andalusia and
the candidate answers here are Thoreau and
Cervantes.
And we'd like to know that
Thoreau is a very bad answer,
because Thoreau was born in 1817, couldn't
have been alive in 1594 to take a job.
But Cervantes is at least a possible
answer, because he was alive in 1594.
So these kind of temporal databases
would let us do reasoning about
when people are born and died.
And therefore, when they can be
an answer to a possible question.
Geospatial knowledge questions about
containment, or directionality, or
borders, it can help answer lots of
questions so we can help know that Beijing
is a good answer for say, Asian city,
but New York is not a good answer for
Asian city or
that California is southwest of Montana.
And so for example,
one of these databases, geonames.org lets
you type in, I typed in Palo Alto here.
And you can pull in all sorts of
facts from these kind of databases.
So it's population,
it's elevation, the latitude and
longitude and the fact that it's
part of the United States and
part of California and
in Santa Clara County and so on.
Many question answering systems are simply
one shot questions, you ask a question,
you get an answer.
Other systems like series one of these
carry on a full conversation with the user
and their contexting
conversation matters more.
So for example, in a Siri conversation
you might say, book a table and
Il Fornaio at 7:00 with my mom,
that might be sentence one.
And sentence two might be,
also send her an email reminder.
So that her knowing that her means my
mom is the kind of thing that matters if
you're going to have
multiple sentence questions.
So, this conference resolving
dialogue conference knowing that her
refers to my mom is the kind of thing
we're going to need to do in a question
answering system if we have a full
conversation multiple sentences in a row.
Similarly, you might be able to
ask clarification questions if
the user says Chicago pizza,
system like so you might ask,
do you mean pizza restaurants in
Chicago or Chicago-style pizza?
So it might have an ambiguity.
And the system resolves the ambiguity by
asking a follow-up question to the user.
So these are the kind of complications
that occur when our questionnaire string
system has to be able to deal
with follow-on questions and
dialogue in general.
Knowledge like relation extraction is
very important question answering.
And depending on a question
answering system,
we're going to see other kinds of
knowledge like geospatial and temporal and
dialog and conversation knowledge
playing a role as well.